Assignment 1: The "Confused Agent" Routing Challenge
Objective: Design and implement a system where an AI agent can reliably distinguish
between two similar user intents: initiating a one-time refund and canceling a recurring
subscription. The core challenge is leveraging precise tool documentation (Docstrings) to
guide the Agent's decision-making without explicit conditional logic (if/else).
Scenario:
An AI for a SaaS platform must handle user requests related to two distinct financial actions:
1. refund_order: Reversing a specific, past transaction.
2. cancel_subscription: Stopping all future recurring payments.
Task Requirements:
1. Tool Creation: Build two custom Python tools with the following signatures:
○ refund_order(transaction_id: str)
○ cancel_subscription(email: str)
2. Docstring Design: Write highly specific and unambiguous Docstrings for both tools.
This is the sole mechanism for the Agent to correctly route the user's request.
User Language:
Users often use non-technical language that can be ambiguous.
● A user might say, "Stop taking money from my account!" (This is a Cancel request).
● A user might say, "I want my money back for last month." (This is a Refund request).
Test Cases:
1. Cancel Test: "I don't want to use your software anymore, stop
charging john@email.com." (Must select cancel_subscription).
2. Refund Test: "My last charge of $50 on ID #TXN991 was a mistake,
give it back." (Must select refund_order).
Success Metric:
The Agent must autonomously select the correct tool for both test prompts. If the Agent picks
the wrong tool, the Docstring logic has failed. No manual if/else statements are permitted for
routing.
Assignment 2: Agent Resilience - The Broken API Challenge
Objective: To build a financial agent capable of autonomous recovery when a primary data
source fails.
Scenario: Your Financial Agent is designed to retrieve stock prices. The primary stock price
database is currently experiencing an outage (simulated failure). The Agent must demonstrate
the ability to switch to a backup method.
Required Tasks:
1. Create a Failing Tool: Develop a tool named
get_internal_stock_price(ticker: str). This tool must be intentionally coded
to fail (e.g., return the string "Error: Database Timeout" or raise a handled
exception that results in a failure observation).
2. Create a Backup Tool: Develop a secondary, functional tool named
search_public_web(query: str). This tool should return a mock web search
result (e.g., "Apple stock is at $170").
3. Agent Initialization: Initialize your Agent with both the failing primary tool and the
functioning backup tool.
4. Test Query: Ask the Agent the question: "What is the current stock price of
Apple?"
Success Criteria:
The terminal output must clearly demonstrate the Agent's thought process, proving:
● It Thought about and attempted to use the internal database.
● It Acted by calling get_internal_stock_price.
● It Observed the expected timeout/failure error.
● It Autonomously Recovered by subsequently switching its action to the
search_public_web tool to successfully answer the query.
None
Assignment 3: The "Lost Context" Detective Puzzle
Target Concepts: RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter, Chunk Overlap, Vector Databases,
and RAG Context Fragmentation.
Scenario: You are given a tricky internal company document. If you configure your text splitter
poorly, the AI will suffer from "Context Fragmentation." It will read the final section but won't
understand what the "initiative" refers to, causing it to fail or hallucinate the answer.
The Document: Please copy and paste this exact string into your Python code:
Python
tricky_document = """
Section 1: The company Jade Global is launching a massive new
internal initiative called Project Phoenix. This project will
restructure the entire cloud infrastructure.
Section 2: Employees must adhere to the standard office hours of
9:00 AM to 5:00 PM. Remote work is permitted on Tuesdays and
Thursdays, provided that the employee has secured prior approval
from their direct manager.
Section 3: The cafeteria will now offer extended hours, opening
at 7:30 AM for breakfast. Please ensure you clear your tables
after eating.
Section 4: All IT support tickets must be filed through the
internal Jira portal. Direct emails to the IT staff will be
ignored starting next month.
Section 5: The annual holiday party is scheduled for December
15th. Dress code is semi-formal. Plus-ones are allowed if
registered by November 30th.
Section 6: Parking in the executive lot is strictly prohibited
for unauthorized vehicles. Violators will be towed at the owner's
expense.
Section 7: Health insurance open enrollment begins in October.
Please review the new dental and vision plans, as the providers
have changed this year.
Section 8: All employees must complete the mandatory
cybersecurity training module by the end of Q3. Failure to do so
will result in temporary suspension of VPN access.
Section 9: Regarding the cloud restructure initiative mentioned
earlier, the final deadline for its completion is December 31st,
2026. The budget approved is $500,000.
"""
Your Tasks:
1. The Pipeline: Build a local RAG pipeline using LangChain.
2. The Splitter: Use the RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter to chunk the
tricky_document.
3. The Database: Store the chunks in a local, in-memory Vector Database (Use FAISS or
Chroma). Do not use a cloud database. Use standard embeddings (like Google
Generative AI Embeddings or HuggingFace).
4. The Query: Ask your RAG pipeline this exact question: "What is the deadline and
budget for Project Phoenix?"
Notice that the name "Project Phoenix" is in Section 1, but the budget and deadline are all the
way down in Section 9. If your chunk_size is too small and your chunk_overlap is 0, the AI
will retrieve Section 9, but it won't know that the "cloud restructure initiative" is actually Project
Phoenix. You must experiment with different chunk_size and chunk_overlap values until
you find the perfect balance that allows the AI to connect the dots.
Success Metric:
● The Output: Your terminal must confidently print the correct answer: "December 31st,
2026, with a $500,000 budget" without hallucinating.
● The Explanation (Mandatory): At the very bottom of your Python script, you MUST
include a multi-line comment (''' '''). In this comment, explain exactly why you
chose your specific chunk_size and chunk_overlap numbers. Explain what
happened when the overlap was too small, and why your final numbers fixed the issue.
(Submissions without this logical explanation will lose points).
